Documentation: Debugging with OpenShift Toolkit (#6691)
redhat-developer/odo: docs/website/docs/user-guides/advanced/debugging-with-openshift-toolkit.md

---
title: Debugging an Application with OpenShift Toolkit
sidebar_position: 7
---

> Debugging is an unavoidable part of development, and it can prove even more difficult when developing an application that runs remotely.

Reviewer: I'd mention containers here, as we can also debug traditional apps that run on remote servers..

```suggestion
Debugging is an unavoidable part of development, and it can prove even more difficult when developing an application that runs remotely in containers.
```

However, this task is made absurdly simple with the help of OpenShift Toolkit.

## OpenShift Toolkit

> [OpenShift Toolkit](https://github.com/redhat-developer/intellij-openshift-connector) is an IDE plugin that allows you to do all things that `odo` does, i.e. create, test, debug and deploy cloud-native applications on a cloud-native environment in simple steps.

Reviewer: The link points to the IntelliJ plugin, but there is no pointer to the one for VS Code. I'd suggest removing this link here, and instead mentioning that there are plugins for VSCode and JetBrains IDEs, with dedicated links to their marketplaces. What do you think?

`odo` enables this plugin to do what it does.

## Prerequisites
1. [You have logged in to your cluster](../quickstart/nodejs.md#step-1-connect-to-your-cluster-and-create-a-new-namespace-or-project).

> 2. [You have initialized a Node.js application with odo](../quickstart/nodejs.md#step-2-initializing-your-application-odo-init).

Reviewer: IMO, the prerequisite is actually to have an application initialized with `odo`. So I'd be more generic here, and specify Node.js as an example.

```suggestion
2. You have [initialized an application with `odo`](/docs/command-reference/init), for example [the Node.JS quickstart application](../quickstart/nodejs.md#step-2-initializing-your-application-odo-init).
```

:::note

>  This tutorial uses a nodejs application, but you can use any application that has Devfile with debug command defined in it. If your Devfile does not contain a debug command, refer [Configure Devfile to support debugging](#configure-devfile-to-support-debugging).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 This tutorial uses a Node.js application, but you can use any application that has Devfile with debug command defined in it. If your Devfile does not contain a debug command, refer to [Configure Devfile to support debugging](#configure-devfile-to-support-debugging).
```

:::

> 3. You have installed OpenShift Toolkit Plugin in your preferred VS Code or a Jet Brains IDE.

Reviewer: Adding a link to our IDE plugin installation doc.

```suggestion
3. You have [installed](/docs/overview/installation#ide-installation) the OpenShift Toolkit Plugin in your preferred VS Code or a JetBrains IDE.
```

> 3. You have [installed](/docs/overview/installation#ide-installation) the OpenShift Toolkit Plugin in your preferred VS Code or a JetBrains IDE.

Reviewer: As a prerequisite, you are saying that we can install the plugin on "JetBrains IDE", but the tutorial is focusing on VSCode. Maybe you can add a note mentioning that this tutorial uses VS Code, but there are similar steps with JetBrains IDEs"..
